git and git hub are different 
git is the software and git hub is the service.
git is version control system track file for changes 
git status 
git init - one time per project - short command to intialize a project.
.git - A hidden folder to keep histroy of all files and sub-folders
.gitignore - don't want to track some file, node module api key secret get template online patterns can be tricky 

Git Brach -- A branch in Git is a lightweight, movable pointer to a commit. It allows you to work on different features, bug fixes, or experiments without affecting the main codebase.

By default, Git has a branch called:

main (or sometimes master)

Git diff - informative command.
git stash temporarily saves your uncommitted changes so you can switch branches or work on something else without committing.
git stash you can switch the branch.
git pop - bring back changes.
git stash apply- apply changes and kept them in stash

Rebase: Alternative to merging   - Rebase is an alternative to merging; avoid running it on the main or master branch.

        clean up tool (clean up commits)

Git is a software and github is a service to host git online 
github -> collaboration + backup + opensource

Setup SSH keys to connect with github, github uses SSh to allow you to push code password based code push is not allowed 

GITHUB Features -
Adding collaborator's , Readme file, mark down format, adding gists, code spaces, dev container 
PR - Pull Request
//Basic Git Concepts
Repository (repo) → Project folder tracked by Git
Commit → Snapshot of changes
Branch → Separate line of development
Merge → Combine branches
Clone → Copy repo from remote to local
Push → Upload local changes to GitHub
Pull → Download updates from GitHub

Git Workflow
Modify files
Stage changes
Commit changes
Push to GitHub
  
  Common Mistakes

  Forgetting to add before commit
Working directly on main
Not pulling before pushing
Overwriting changes during merge conflicts
//

MCQ
1- What does the command git init do?
intialize a new git Repository.
2- Where does Git store all its metadata and version history?
In the .git hidden folder
3- Which command is used to create a commit in Git?
git commit-m "message"
4- What does the git log command do?
It shows the commit history of the Repository
5 - What is the purpose of the git merge command?
It merge two branches together
6 - What is a Git conflict?
A situation where git cannot determine which changes to keep after merge
7 - What does git stash do in Git?
Saves uncommitted  changes temporarily and cleans the working directory  
8 - Which of the following commands can be used to compare differences between two commits?
git diff


